services/ingestion/docs/system-solution/ingestion-service-architecture.md, before:

### 1. Overview

**1.1. Introduction**

This document defines the simplest viable architecture for the Ingestion Service as a single microservice with modular internal components. It connects to the ISS Lightstreamer ISSLIVE feed, validates and enriches telemetry, and publishes events to the message bus. It optimizes for time-to-value, cost, and maintainability while meeting current requirements. The broader ISS Telemetry Data Analytics System follows a microservices architecture; this document covers only the Ingestion Service and Message Bus.

**1.2. Business Goals**

- Reliable ingestion with strict per-item ordering and no duplicates.
- Enable near-real-time analytics (e.g., Pee-Bot) by delivering validated events to the bus.
- Provide observability (health, metrics) and stability (backpressure, retries, circuit breaker).
- Support replayability and retention via the bus.

**1.3. Technical Goals & Non-Goals**

- Technical goals:
  - Maintain persistent Lightstreamer subscription; handle reconnects.
  - Validate payloads; enrich with deterministic `event_id` and `ingest_ts`.
  - Non-blocking pipeline with bounded concurrency to sustain target throughput.
  - Idempotent, ordered publish to Kafka with per-item keys.
  - Expose `/healthz`, `/metrics`, and a protected test-ingest endpoint.
- Non-goals (out of scope now):
  - Stream processing/analytics, dashboards, ML/forecasting.
  - Schema registry rollout and governance beyond basic versioning.
- Multi-region HA; Kubernetes; multi-service decomposition of the Ingestion Service.


### 2. Proposed Technology Stack

2.1. **Frontend**

- None for this service.

2.2. **Backend**

- Python 3.11, FastAPI, Uvicorn (ASGI), asyncio
- Pydantic v2 for schema validation
- Lightstreamer Python client (official SDK)
- Tenacity for retries with jitter

Justification: Python/FastAPI aligns with team skills and speed of delivery; Pydantic enables strict validation; Lightstreamer SDK provides a stable client. Runtime pinned to Python 3.11 for dependency wheel availability and stability; revisit 3.13 once all dependencies publish official wheels and CI passes.

2.3. **Database**

- None. The service is stateless; no persistent store required.

2.4. **Real-time Communication**

- Not applicable for external clients. Internal ingestion uses Lightstreamer SDK.

2.5. **Message Bus Producer**

- `confluent-kafka-python` (librdkafka) in a producer thread pool for throughput and idempotent delivery; Kafka-compatible (Redpanda on local VPS).

Justification: High-performance producer with idempotence; widely adopted; minimizes risk.

2.6. **Message Bus (Broker)**

- Redpanda (Kafka API-compatible) single-node broker on the same VPS.

Justification: Simpler single-binary deployment (no JVM/KRaft complexity), lower resource footprint, faster startup, and zero additional cost while retaining Kafka API compatibility. Appropriate for a personal, single-node VPS deployment; switching to OSS Kafka later does not require app code changes.

2.7. **Testing**

- pytest, pytest-asyncio, httpx TestClient, freezegun for time-based tests.

2.8. **DevOps & Deployment**

- Containerized with Docker; deployed to Coolify-managed VPS as a single service.
- CI/CD: GitHub Actions (build, test, push image, deploy).
- Environments: staging and production; same container with env-based config.

Justifications summary: Single microservice with modular internal components; minimal infra. Kafka API explicitly required; use self-hosted Redpanda (Kafka-compatible) on the same VPS to avoid extra cost; Docker-on-VPS keeps ops simple.


### 3. System Architecture

**3.1. High-Level Diagram**

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph External
    LS[Lightstreamer ISSLIVE Adapter]
  end

  subgraph IngestionService["Ingestion Service"]
    A[Lightstreamer Subscriber]
    B[Validator and Enricher]
    Q[Async Queue]
    P[Kafka Producer]
    H[HTTP API]
  end

  subgraph Platform["Platform on single VPS"]
    K[Kafka/Redpanda (self-hosted)]
    M[Metrics Collector]
  end

  LS --> A --> B --> Q --> P --> K
  H --> B
  IngestionService --> M
```

**3.2. Component Breakdown**

- Lightstreamer Subscriber: Maintains subscription; resumes on disconnect; translates updates to normalized dicts.
- Validator & Enricher: Pydantic models enforce schema; adds `event_id` (deterministic hash) and `ingest_ts`.
- Async Queue: Bounded `asyncio.Queue` decouples intake from publish; enables backpressure.
- Kafka Producer: Threaded `confluent-kafka` producer with idempotence and per-item key to preserve partition ordering; batched flush.
- HTTP API: `/api/v1/ingest/test` for controlled test injection; `/healthz` liveness; `/metrics` Prometheus.


### 4. Data Design

**4.1. Data Models**

Pydantic model (logical schema for produced events):

```python
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field, AwareDatetime
from typing import Optional

class TelemetryEvent(BaseModel):
    schema_version: int = Field(1, ge=1)
    event_id: str  # deterministic SHA-256 of key fields
    item_id: str = Field(min_length=1)
    source_ts: AwareDatetime  # from Lightstreamer payload
    ingest_ts: AwareDatetime  # set by ingestion service
    value: str  # raw value as string to avoid precision loss
    status_class: Optional[str]
    status_indicator: Optional[str]
    status_color: Optional[str]
    calibrated_data: Optional[str]
    source: str = Field("isslive", const=True)
```

Constraints and indexes:
- Kafka key: `item_id` (strict ordering per telemetry item).
- Deterministic `event_id`: SHA-256 of `item_id|source_ts|value|status_class|status_indicator|status_color|calibrated_data|schema_version` to enable downstream idempotency.
- No database indexes (service is stateless).

Topic conventions:
- Topic name: `telemetry.raw.v1`
- Partitions: sized by number of distinct `item_id` keys and throughput; start with 12 and adjust.
- Retention (hot): 7 days (broker setting on local Redpanda). Compaction disabled for this raw topic.

**4.2. Data Flow Diagram**

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant LS as Lightstreamer
  participant ING as Ingestion Service
  participant Q as Bounded Queue
  participant K as Kafka

  LS->>ING: Update(item_id, payload)
  ING->>ING: Validate + Enrich (event_id, ingest_ts)
  ING->>Q: enqueue(message)
  Q-->>ING: next()
  ING->>K: produce(key=item_id, value=event)
  K-->>ING: ack (idempotent)
  ING->>ING: metrics(lag, rates, errors)
```


### 5. API and Interface Definitions

REST (internal/admin only):

- HTTP Method: `POST`
- Endpoint URL: `/api/v1/ingest/test`
- Request (JSON):

```json
{
  "item_id": "USLAB000061",
  "source_ts": "2025-01-01T12:00:00Z",
  "value": "12.34",
  "status_class": "OK",
  "status_indicator": "NOMINAL",
  "status_color": "GREEN",
  "calibrated_data": "12.34 C"
}
```

- Response (201 Created):

```json
{ "event_id": "5f7c...", "status": "enqueued" }
```

- Status Codes:
  - 201: Accepted/enqueued
  - 400: Validation error
  - 401/403: Unauthorized/Forbidden (missing/invalid token)
  - 429: Queue full (backpressure active)
  - 500: Internal error

Operational endpoints:
- `GET /healthz` -> 200 OK with basic process health
- `GET /metrics` -> Prometheus exposition format


### 6. Cross-Cutting Concerns

**6.1. Authentication & Authorization**

- Test endpoint protected by static Bearer token configured via environment variable; enforced via FastAPI dependency.
- Principle of least privilege for deployment runtime; no public exposure unless IP-restricted.

**6.2. Security Considerations**

- TLS in transit via Coolify reverse proxy for inbound HTTP. Kafka/Redpanda runs locally on the same VPS; keep broker bound to localhost. If remote clients are introduced later, enable SASL/SSL.
- Secrets (tokens) stored as Coolify environment variables; no secrets in images. Broker can run without SASL on localhost-only.
- Strict input validation; reject malformed data; capped payload sizes; timeouts on external calls.

**6.3. Logging and Monitoring**

- Structured JSON logs to stdout (INFO default; DEBUG toggleable).
- Prometheus metrics: ingestion rate, queue depth, processing latency, publish success/failures, retries, Lightstreamer reconnects. Surface Kafka client metrics if available (e.g., delivery latency, error counts).
- Optional: Sentry DSN for error reporting.


### 7. Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs)

- Scalability: Non-blocking pipeline with bounded concurrency; for now, single-replica on one VPS. Future scale: add a second VPS or migrate broker to managed service.
- Performance: Target now ~70 msg/s; design for 10k msg/s with idempotent producer and batching; P99 ingestion-to-produce < 200 ms.
- Reliability: Idempotent producer; deterministic `event_id`; retries with jitter; bounded queues; circuit breaker on Lightstreamer disconnects. Single-node Redpanda is a SPOF; acceptable for personal project. Back up data dir or accept data loss on node failure.
- Maintainability: Small, typed codebase; single container; clear module boundaries (subscriber, validator, publisher, API).


### 8. Deployment and Infrastructure

Recommended deployment:
- Containerized FastAPI app on Coolify-managed VPS. One service, health-checked, auto-restart. Resource caps to protect host.
- Self-hosted Redpanda (Kafka-compatible) container on the same VPS. Single-node, data persisted to host volume; topic retention 7 days.
- CI/CD via GitHub Actions: on main, run tests, build/push image, trigger Coolify deploy. Versioned configs per env.

Cost and ops impact (rough order-of-magnitude, monthly):
- Hetzner VPS (Coolify host): sunk cost (existing VPS). Complexity: low-to-medium; ops owned by you (VM, Docker, backups).
- Redpanda single-node: no additional cost; complexity: medium (storage, retention, disk space monitoring); ops owned by you.
- Monitoring: run Prometheus/Grafana as containers on VPS (no extra cost); complexity: medium; ops owned by you.
- Sentry (optional): free tier; complexity: low; SaaS ops.

Operational playbook highlights:
- Rollouts: restart ingestion first, then broker only during maintenance windows; ensure broker data volume is backed up or disposable if acceptable.
- Config via env: broker bootstrap (localhost), topic, partitions, auth token, metrics flags.
- Alarms: queue depth high-watermark, publish failures, broker disk usage >80%, broker restarts, Lightstreamer reconnect churn.


### 9. Assumptions and Gaps

Assumptions:
- Access to Lightstreamer ISSLIVE and item list will be provided.
- A single Hetzner VPS hosts Coolify, the Ingestion Service, and Redpanda. Local-only broker access (localhost) is sufficient.
- Topic retention (hot) is set to 7 days on the local broker.

Open questions (targeted):
- Confirm preferred Redpanda version and data directory size on disk; acceptable disk usage ceiling.
- Provide authoritative list of Lightstreamer items and field mapping nuances (units, bounds).
- Confirm metrics collection standard and alert thresholds.
- Confirm TLS termination location and any IP allowlists for the test endpoint (if exposed beyond localhost).


### 10. Implementation Notes (non-binding)

- Use a bounded `asyncio.Queue` (e.g., size 10_000) between validation and publish; when full, return 429 on test endpoint and temporarily drop ingestion reads by pausing the subscriber.
- Configure producer with idempotence enabled, linger.ms/batch.num.messages tuned for throughput, and delivery callbacks to track acks.
- Compute deterministic `event_id` with SHA-256 over canonicalized fields; ensure stable serialization to avoid accidental changes.
- Per-item keying preserves strict ordering; partition count sized to keys and throughput.


### 11. Message Bus (Redpanda) Configuration & Ops

Profile
- Single-node Redpanda (Kafka-compatible) container on the same Hetzner VPS as Ingestion.
- Bind Kafka API to localhost only; expose Prometheus metrics port to localhost.
- Data directory: `/var/lib/redpanda/data` (mounted Docker volume). Retention: 7 days.

Topics
- `telemetry.raw.v1`: key=`item_id`, value=`TelemetryEvent` JSON, partitions=12 (adjust empirically), replication factor=1, cleanup.policy=`delete`, retention.ms=`604800000` (7 days).
- Naming/versioning: `domain.resource.v{n}`; breaking schema changes require a new versioned topic.

Producer settings (confluent-kafka)
- `enable.idempotence=true`, `acks=all`, `delivery.timeout.ms=120000`, `request.timeout.ms=30000`, `max.in.flight.requests.per.connection=5`.
- `linger.ms=5..20`, `batch.num.messages=1000..10000` (tune), `compression.type=snappy` or `lz4`.
- Keying: `item_id` for strict per-item ordering.

Ordering & idempotency policy
- Ordering guaranteed per partition via keying by `item_id`.
- Deterministic `event_id` computed by ingestion allows downstream idempotent processing and dedup.

Disk sizing & monitoring
- Capacity estimate: `avg_msg_bytes × messages_per_second × seconds(7d)` with RF=1.
- Example: 500 B × 70 msg/s × 604800 ≈ 21 GB; add 30–50% headroom. For 10k msg/s design test, disk would be prohibitive on single VPS; keep as future scalability note.
- Alerts: warn at 80% disk; rotate/remove old segments by retention; monitor partition sizes and broker restarts.

Operations
- Startup order: Redpanda -> Ingestion.
- Shutdown order: Ingestion -> Redpanda. Ensure producer flush on SIGTERM.
- Backup: optional. If desired, stop broker, snapshot data dir. Otherwise accept data loss on node failure.
- Upgrade: stop ingestion, stop broker, back up data dir, upgrade container image, start broker, start ingestion.

Security
- Localhost-only Kafka API; no SASL/SSL initially. If remote clients are needed later, enable SASL/SSL and firewall allowlists.
- Restrict Coolify routes; keep test-ingest endpoint non-public or IP-allowlisted.

Observability
- Enable Redpanda metrics and scrape with local Prometheus; Grafana dashboards for produce/consume rates, partition health, storage, restarts.

Commit message:

Update documentation for SSL automation and certificate management
Enhanced ingestion service documentation to include automatic SSL certificate management via Let's Encrypt integration through Coolify, ensuring HTTPS endpoints are secured without manual intervention. Added comprehensive requirements document for T002 task covering infrastructure access, repository setup, and environment preparation.

services/ingestion/docs/system-solution/ingestion-service-architecture.md, after:

### 1. Overview

**1.1. Introduction**

This document defines the simplest viable architecture for the Ingestion Service as a single microservice with modular internal components. It connects to the ISS Lightstreamer ISSLIVE feed, validates and enriches telemetry, and publishes events to the message bus. It optimizes for time-to-value, cost, and maintainability while meeting current requirements. The broader ISS Telemetry Data Analytics System follows a microservices architecture; this document covers only the Ingestion Service and Message Bus.

**1.2. Business Goals**

- Reliable ingestion with strict per-item ordering and no duplicates.
- Enable near-real-time analytics (e.g., Pee-Bot) by delivering validated events to the bus.
- Provide observability (health, metrics) and stability (backpressure, retries, circuit breaker).
- Support replayability and retention via the bus.

**1.3. Technical Goals & Non-Goals**

- Technical goals:
  - Maintain persistent Lightstreamer subscription; handle reconnects.
  - Validate payloads; enrich with deterministic `event_id` and `ingest_ts`.
  - Non-blocking pipeline with bounded concurrency to sustain target throughput.
  - Idempotent, ordered publish to Kafka with per-item keys.
  - Expose `/healthz`, `/metrics`, and a protected test-ingest endpoint.
- Non-goals (out of scope now):
  - Stream processing/analytics, dashboards, ML/forecasting.
  - Schema registry rollout and governance beyond basic versioning.
- Multi-region HA; Kubernetes; multi-service decomposition of the Ingestion Service.


### 2. Proposed Technology Stack

2.1. **Frontend**

- None for this service.

2.2. **Backend**

- Python 3.11, FastAPI, Uvicorn (ASGI), asyncio
- Pydantic v2 for schema validation
- Lightstreamer Python client (official SDK)
- Tenacity for retries with jitter

Justification: Python/FastAPI aligns with team skills and speed of delivery; Pydantic enables strict validation; Lightstreamer SDK provides a stable client. Runtime pinned to Python 3.11 for dependency wheel availability and stability; revisit 3.13 once all dependencies publish official wheels and CI passes.

2.3. **Database**

- None. The service is stateless; no persistent store required.

2.4. **Real-time Communication**

- Not applicable for external clients. Internal ingestion uses Lightstreamer SDK.

2.5. **Message Bus Producer**

- `confluent-kafka-python` (librdkafka) in a producer thread pool for throughput and idempotent delivery; Kafka-compatible (Redpanda on local VPS).

Justification: High-performance producer with idempotence; widely adopted; minimizes risk.

2.6. **Message Bus (Broker)**

- Redpanda (Kafka API-compatible) single-node broker on the same VPS.

Justification: Simpler single-binary deployment (no JVM/KRaft complexity), lower resource footprint, faster startup, and zero additional cost while retaining Kafka API compatibility. Appropriate for a personal, single-node VPS deployment; switching to OSS Kafka later does not require app code changes.

2.7. **Testing**

- pytest, pytest-asyncio, httpx TestClient, freezegun for time-based tests.

2.8. **DevOps & Deployment**

- Containerized with Docker; deployed to Coolify-managed VPS as a single service.
- CI/CD: GitHub Actions (build, test, push image, deploy).
- Environments: staging and production; same container with env-based config.

Justifications summary: Single microservice with modular internal components; minimal infra. Kafka API explicitly required; use self-hosted Redpanda (Kafka-compatible) on the same VPS to avoid extra cost; Docker-on-VPS keeps ops simple.


### 3. System Architecture

**3.1. High-Level Diagram**

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph External
    LS[Lightstreamer ISSLIVE Adapter]
  end

  subgraph IngestionService["Ingestion Service"]
    A[Lightstreamer Subscriber]
    B[Validator and Enricher]
    Q[Async Queue]
    P[Kafka Producer]
    H[HTTP API]
  end

  subgraph Platform["Platform on single VPS"]
    K[Kafka/Redpanda (self-hosted)]
    M[Metrics Collector]
  end

  LS --> A --> B --> Q --> P --> K
  H --> B
  IngestionService --> M
```

**3.2. Component Breakdown**

- Lightstreamer Subscriber: Maintains subscription; resumes on disconnect; translates updates to normalized dicts.
- Validator & Enricher: Pydantic models enforce schema; adds `event_id` (deterministic hash) and `ingest_ts`.
- Async Queue: Bounded `asyncio.Queue` decouples intake from publish; enables backpressure.
- Kafka Producer: Threaded `confluent-kafka` producer with idempotence and per-item key to preserve partition ordering; batched flush.
- HTTP API: `/api/v1/ingest/test` for controlled test injection; `/healthz` liveness; `/metrics` Prometheus.


### 4. Data Design

**4.1. Data Models**

Pydantic model (logical schema for produced events):

```python
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field, AwareDatetime
from typing import Optional

class TelemetryEvent(BaseModel):
    schema_version: int = Field(1, ge=1)
    event_id: str  # deterministic SHA-256 of key fields
    item_id: str = Field(min_length=1)
    source_ts: AwareDatetime  # from Lightstreamer payload
    ingest_ts: AwareDatetime  # set by ingestion service
    value: str  # raw value as string to avoid precision loss
    status_class: Optional[str]
    status_indicator: Optional[str]
    status_color: Optional[str]
    calibrated_data: Optional[str]
    source: str = Field("isslive", const=True)
```

Constraints and indexes:
- Kafka key: `item_id` (strict ordering per telemetry item).
- Deterministic `event_id`: SHA-256 of `item_id|source_ts|value|status_class|status_indicator|status_color|calibrated_data|schema_version` to enable downstream idempotency.
- No database indexes (service is stateless).

Topic conventions:
- Topic name: `telemetry.raw.v1`
- Partitions: sized by number of distinct `item_id` keys and throughput; start with 12 and adjust.
- Retention (hot): 7 days (broker setting on local Redpanda). Compaction disabled for this raw topic.

**4.2. Data Flow Diagram**

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant LS as Lightstreamer
  participant ING as Ingestion Service
  participant Q as Bounded Queue
  participant K as Kafka

  LS->>ING: Update(item_id, payload)
  ING->>ING: Validate + Enrich (event_id, ingest_ts)
  ING->>Q: enqueue(message)
  Q-->>ING: next()
  ING->>K: produce(key=item_id, value=event)
  K-->>ING: ack (idempotent)
  ING->>ING: metrics(lag, rates, errors)
```


### 5. API and Interface Definitions

REST (internal/admin only):

- HTTP Method: `POST`
- Endpoint URL: `/api/v1/ingest/test`
- Request (JSON):

```json
{
  "item_id": "USLAB000061",
  "source_ts": "2025-01-01T12:00:00Z",
  "value": "12.34",
  "status_class": "OK",
  "status_indicator": "NOMINAL",
  "status_color": "GREEN",
  "calibrated_data": "12.34 C"
}
```

- Response (201 Created):

```json
{ "event_id": "5f7c...", "status": "enqueued" }
```

- Status Codes:
  - 201: Accepted/enqueued
  - 400: Validation error
  - 401/403: Unauthorized/Forbidden (missing/invalid token)
  - 429: Queue full (backpressure active)
  - 500: Internal error

Operational endpoints:
- `GET /healthz` -> 200 OK with basic process health
- `GET /metrics` -> Prometheus exposition format


### 6. Cross-Cutting Concerns

**6.1. Authentication & Authorization**

- Test endpoint protected by static Bearer token configured via environment variable; enforced via FastAPI dependency.
- Principle of least privilege for deployment runtime; no public exposure unless IP-restricted.

**6.2. Security Considerations**

- TLS in transit via Coolify reverse proxy for inbound HTTP with automatic SSL certificate management through Let's Encrypt integration. All HTTP requests automatically redirected to HTTPS.
- SSL certificates automatically obtained, renewed, and managed by Coolify without manual intervention.
- Kafka/Redpanda runs locally on the same VPS; keep broker bound to localhost. If remote clients are introduced later, enable SASL/SSL.
- Secrets (tokens) stored as Coolify environment variables; no secrets in images. Broker can run without SASL on localhost-only.
- Strict input validation; reject malformed data; capped payload sizes; timeouts on external calls.

**6.3. Logging and Monitoring**

- Structured JSON logs to stdout (INFO default; DEBUG toggleable).
- Prometheus metrics: ingestion rate, queue depth, processing latency, publish success/failures, retries, Lightstreamer reconnects. Surface Kafka client metrics if available (e.g., delivery latency, error counts).
- Optional: Sentry DSN for error reporting.


### 7. Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs)

- Scalability: Non-blocking pipeline with bounded concurrency; for now, single-replica on one VPS. Future scale: add a second VPS or migrate broker to managed service.
- Performance: Target now ~70 msg/s; design for 10k msg/s with idempotent producer and batching; P99 ingestion-to-produce < 200 ms.
- Reliability: Idempotent producer; deterministic `event_id`; retries with jitter; bounded queues; circuit breaker on Lightstreamer disconnects. Single-node Redpanda is a SPOF; acceptable for personal project. Back up data dir or accept data loss on node failure.
- Maintainability: Small, typed codebase; single container; clear module boundaries (subscriber, validator, publisher, API).


### 8. Deployment and Infrastructure

Recommended deployment:
- Containerized FastAPI app on Coolify-managed VPS. One service, health-checked, auto-restart. Resource caps to protect host. Automatic SSL certificate management via Let's Encrypt.
- Self-hosted Redpanda (Kafka-compatible) container on the same VPS. Single-node, data persisted to host volume; topic retention 7 days.
- CI/CD via GitHub Actions: on main, run tests, build/push image, trigger Coolify deploy. Versioned configs per env.

Cost and ops impact (rough order-of-magnitude, monthly):
- Hetzner VPS (Coolify host): sunk cost (existing VPS). Complexity: low-to-medium; ops owned by you (VM, Docker, backups).
- Redpanda single-node: no additional cost; complexity: medium (storage, retention, disk space monitoring); ops owned by you.
- Monitoring: run Prometheus/Grafana as containers on VPS (no extra cost); complexity: medium; ops owned by you.
- Sentry (optional): free tier; complexity: low; SaaS ops.

Operational playbook highlights:
- Rollouts: restart ingestion first, then broker only during maintenance windows; ensure broker data volume is backed up or disposable if acceptable.
- Config via env: broker bootstrap (localhost), topic, partitions, auth token, metrics flags.
- Alarms: queue depth high-watermark, publish failures, broker disk usage >80%, broker restarts, Lightstreamer reconnect churn.


### 9. Assumptions and Gaps

Assumptions:
- Access to Lightstreamer ISSLIVE and item list will be provided.
- A single Hetzner VPS hosts Coolify, the Ingestion Service, and Redpanda. Local-only broker access (localhost) is sufficient.
- Topic retention (hot) is set to 7 days on the local broker.

Open questions (targeted):
- Confirm preferred Redpanda version and data directory size on disk; acceptable disk usage ceiling.
- Provide authoritative list of Lightstreamer items and field mapping nuances (units, bounds).
- Confirm metrics collection standard and alert thresholds.
- Confirm TLS termination location and any IP allowlists for the test endpoint (if exposed beyond localhost).


### 10. Implementation Notes (non-binding)

- Use a bounded `asyncio.Queue` (e.g., size 10_000) between validation and publish; when full, return 429 on test endpoint and temporarily drop ingestion reads by pausing the subscriber.
- Configure producer with idempotence enabled, linger.ms/batch.num.messages tuned for throughput, and delivery callbacks to track acks.
- Compute deterministic `event_id` with SHA-256 over canonicalized fields; ensure stable serialization to avoid accidental changes.
- Per-item keying preserves strict ordering; partition count sized to keys and throughput.


### 11. Message Bus (Redpanda) Configuration & Ops

Profile
- Single-node Redpanda (Kafka-compatible) container on the same Hetzner VPS as Ingestion.
- Bind Kafka API to localhost only; expose Prometheus metrics port to localhost.
- Data directory: `/var/lib/redpanda/data` (mounted Docker volume). Retention: 7 days.

Topics
- `telemetry.raw.v1`: key=`item_id`, value=`TelemetryEvent` JSON, partitions=12 (adjust empirically), replication factor=1, cleanup.policy=`delete`, retention.ms=`604800000` (7 days).
- Naming/versioning: `domain.resource.v{n}`; breaking schema changes require a new versioned topic.

Producer settings (confluent-kafka)
- `enable.idempotence=true`, `acks=all`, `delivery.timeout.ms=120000`, `request.timeout.ms=30000`, `max.in.flight.requests.per.connection=5`.
- `linger.ms=5..20`, `batch.num.messages=1000..10000` (tune), `compression.type=snappy` or `lz4`.
- Keying: `item_id` for strict per-item ordering.

Ordering & idempotency policy
- Ordering guaranteed per partition via keying by `item_id`.
- Deterministic `event_id` computed by ingestion allows downstream idempotent processing and dedup.

Disk sizing & monitoring
- Capacity estimate: `avg_msg_bytes × messages_per_second × seconds(7d)` with RF=1.
- Example: 500 B × 70 msg/s × 604800 ≈ 21 GB; add 30–50% headroom. For 10k msg/s design test, disk would be prohibitive on single VPS; keep as future scalability note.
- Alerts: warn at 80% disk; rotate/remove old segments by retention; monitor partition sizes and broker restarts.

Operations
- Startup order: Redpanda -> Ingestion.
- Shutdown order: Ingestion -> Redpanda. Ensure producer flush on SIGTERM.
- Backup: optional. If desired, stop broker, snapshot data dir. Otherwise accept data loss on node failure.
- Upgrade: stop ingestion, stop broker, back up data dir, upgrade container image, start broker, start ingestion.

Security
- Localhost-only Kafka API; no SASL/SSL initially. If remote clients are needed later, enable SASL/SSL and firewall allowlists.
- Restrict Coolify routes; keep test-ingest endpoint non-public or IP-allowlisted.

Observability
- Enable Redpanda metrics and scrape with local Prometheus; Grafana dashboards for produce/consume rates, partition health, storage, restarts.
